# Santos FC


<u>**Key Terms:**</u>
 
**Term:** The term shall commence upon the Effective Date and continue for sixty (60) days thereafter (the “Term”). The Term shall be automatically extended: (a) for a period of sixty (60) days for IMG to conclude any open pitches and/or negotiations;

	***AGREEABLE***
 
**IMG Rights/Services**:  Throughout the Term, IMG shall have the exclusive worldwide rights in all media, to seek an offer from any potential third party network, studio, or other financier, buyer or licensee (collectively, “Financier”) to option, finance, produce, license, exhibit and/or distribute the Project (the “Transaction”) and to negotiate and consummate any and all sale, option, license, production, and/or distribution deals relating to the Project.  If a Transaction is secured, IMG (or its designee) will serve as the day-to-day production company of record (inclusive of the administration of any Project budget) with regard to the Project, and IMG shall be entitled to a fee for its production services of at least ten percent (10%) of the production budget of the Project (“Production Company Fee”). IMG shall be entitled to exercise its rights hereunder alongside its co-production partner, Foton Pictures.

	***Would try to bring WME into this and we would need to be a party to all of this, including being named day to day production company of record.*** 
 
**Santos FC Services:** During the Development Period, Santos FC shall provide all necessary access and services in connection with IMG’s development of the Project and the creation of development materials for the Project, on a work-made-for-hire basis, including, without limitation: (a) assisting in developing any treatments, budgets, decks, presentation, sizzle reel and/or pilot (if any), and any other pitch materials and/or development materials, as requested by IMG; (b) causing all individuals or entities relevant to the Project to participate in the Project and to obtain releases (in form and substance to be approved by IMG) from such individuals or entities in connection therewith, including, but not limited to, all key on-camera contributors (and off-screen contributors), participants, talent, subjects, all archival content, and all other individuals or entities necessary to produce and exploit the Project; (c) contributing to the Project any content already developed or currently in development related to or beneficial to the Project and granting IMG any and all rights in such content for during the Development Period; (collectively, the “Services”). IMG shall not be responsible for any costs incurred by Santos FC in connection with the Project prior to Santos FC entering into these Deal Terms or during the Development Period. If a Transaction is secured, IMG shall be reimbursed for all its development costs and expenses out of first production monies received.

	***So IMG would finance anything? If we finance we should be given same rights to recoup and would add a premium or at least an interest to that.*** 
 
**Control**: IMG shall have creative, legal, financial and business control of the Project, provided that IMG shall meaningfully consult with Santos FC with respect to key creative matters.
 
**Fee**: If a Transaction is secured and subject to Financier approval, Santos FC will be entitled to receive an all-in fee in the amount of 5% of the production budget of the Project, as a separate line-item in the production budget in respect of the Santos FC Services including without limitation for access, archive, footage and materials in connection with the Project. Provided that if such 5% fee is not approved by the Financier to be included in the budget, Santos FC will be entitled to a floor of 2.5% of the production budget of the Project, as a fee for its services.
 
**Credits**: Subject to Financier approval, Santos FC shall be entitled to a football club logo credit. All other credits and aspects of credits shall be controlled by IMG and subject to Financier approval. 
 
**Non-Compete**: During the Term, Santos FC and its representatives shall not (and shall ensure no other third-party shall) develop, produce, sell, option, grant, and/or transfer any rights with respect to the Project or any other project with a similar concept to any third-party.
 
**Ownership**: Subject to Financier rights, IMG shall own one hundred percent (100%) of all rights, title, and interest in and to the Project, worldwide, in all media, in perpetuity.
 
**Revenue Waterfall:**  @Foton what do you suggest? 2/3 to Producers, 1/3 to Santos?
 