# EMERGENT

 <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     
Independent. Together.


 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     **Democracy**
 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
      as a tool applied for the support of documentary filmmakers and their work. 


 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     **Interconnectedness**
 </span>


 <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     **Underserved**
 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
      storytellers and subjects. Everything that we is done with the focus of equalizing this difference in exposure in the documentary landscape. 

Think Emergent. Think Green.



EMERGENT MANIFESTO

We at Emergent consider documentaries to be an essential pillar in the worldwide human cultural ethical conversation. A pillar that brings a version of the truth that is unencumbered by political or commercial interests. This is the root of Emergent’s support 

Communicational Ethics

Part of the mix
Journalistic Obligation

The Handing down of information and humanity’s education has become an audiovisual medium… xxx amount of hours available on TED and xxx are watched every day… lynda.com has trained a whole new generation of digital workforce. The power of audiovisual storytelling used for the benefit of humankind.



 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     **First Stage Element List**
 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     
Elements required to activate first round of fundraising. Please add/remove/modify as necessary.

- Emergent Presentation
- 
 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     **Project Guidelines / Protections**
 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
      
- Definition and creation of legal entity. 
- 501C3 or Private Foundation
- 5 Year Financial Plan
- 
 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     **Overhead Structure**
 </span> <span style="color: #000000ff;">
     
- Revenue Streams
- Marketing & Branding
- Strategic Partnerships
- Festivals
- Technology Elements
- Submissions
- Selection / Judging Tools
- Crowdfunding
- VOD Platform
- Technology Partnerships

PENDING // CC

Find $$$ details on Citizen Four. Specifically deal with HBO.



INITIAL FUNDING PRESENTATION STRUCTURE

- Cover
- Feeling Quote
- Manifesto
- Presentation Structure / Summary
- The Money / The Plan
- Partnerships
- The Technolgy
- Why is Emergent different
- Revenue Streams / Fundraising
- The Emergent Jury / Brain Trust
- Members of The Board
- References / Scenarios
- Market Analysis

 </span>