# BL Pitch

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
      #foton/ventures/bendinglight #foton/ventures
Tenemos la oportunidad de participar en proyectos producidos por y para los estudios de Hollywood al igual que proyectos involucrando prestigiosos productores, directores y guionistas de estudios independientes. 
Analyze debt financing opportunities by undercutting the extreme market atmosphere with financing deals being made with +30% cost on the loan amount within 18 months. This is normally comprised of the interest on the loan as well as several closing fees and requirements like bonding the picture.
Analyze equity opportunities with a focus on titles with long term potential like investments in strong award potential library titles, extensive IP providing multi-picture and multimedia potential resulting in "high risk", "high potential" outcomes. With the high risk being mitigated in exposure given the smaller amounts of development funding. This model then requires a studio or other partners to enter the project providing financing for the entire cost of production, marketing and distribution.
An area in which the right choices garner award winning and profitable ventures created off owned and developed IP that will create accumulated value through fan following.
Al hacerlo al calibre global Hollywood, con el cast, talento y presupuesto que implican el interés de coproducción internacional con acceso a public and incentivized funding.
El aspecto impositivo se convierte en la creación de una nueva unidad con intención benéfica ante el medio documental global elegido por su valor social de causa o directamente humana. La protección de una verdad. 
 </span>