# Echo Boomers Unlock

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     #foton/project/echoboomers
Hi James
Great to finally reconnect with you at least via email as I understand it is complicated to get a hold of you and I believe time is of the essence. 
It has become very evident that there has been mismanagement of funds as well as several issues in all phases of production that we have witnessed thus far in Echo Boomers. 
The main reason we boarded this project was to work with you. Not the creative team, cast or even script. The concept of seeing this as a first of many was my main motivation. There was a clear affinity that I thought to have perceived in you in that we were looking at this as a business and looking to do things in a professional manner. This gave me the peace of mind I needed to not only invest with my fund and the partners that comprise it but also brought another partner to come into this project under the assumption that this professionalism would continue. 
The budget initially was a pass for us as we did not see it performing at the level we needed in our projections for a greenlight. The market has changed and we need to account for it. Shortly after passing we had a meeting with you at Cecconi’s, which is the second time we met, in which you shared the situation with the project and your personal commitment to it. Because of this, I left that lunch trying to figure out how to raise the funding the film needed from other sources outside our fund. 
Then the move to Utah and some other changes lead to budget savings which moved the project into our greenlight threshold. Seeing this and going off what you expressed at our last meeting we proceeded to board the project and even bring that additional investment to cover what was supposed to be the only budget overage.
Since we became a part of this project we have expressed our concern with several matters including the script and looking back I struggle to find any example in which any were taken into account. This is the same with most of the times that we have tried to help after having understood from you that the atmosphere would be collaborative given the value that Foton Pictures’ involvement brings to a project. With everything that has come to light in the last 60 days, now my worry is how that value will be affected after having involved myself in a project with the largest budget overage by percentage out of any project I have ever produced and I honestly thought a crew member having an overdose was a thing that was left in the 80s. 
The budget according to the latest cost report we received has ballooned by nearly 700k which from my perspective was an unauthorized budget increase of 25% when compared to the last document we had signed and a complete breach of our agreement not to mention nothing to do with the conversations you and I had before investing. 
This has turned into a situation that I cannot even explain to my partners. There have been several breaches to our agreement and to this day the runaway production costs and mismanagement have not been reigned in. 
For us to achieve the partial proposal below or really for us to even proceed with the project without focusing on the egregious overage and breaches, we would need to completely STOP all fundraising, spending or any activity that is not expressly approved by Langer/Foton directly. Once fully stopped we will be able to finish auditing and be in a position to make a reasonable proposal on how to cure the current situation with our deal as well as all other partners involved. 
We truly believe that there is a better film in the existing footage without a need for any reshoots but we will have to do magic with this edit as well as bring on an accomplished composer to replace the irreplaceable songs selected for this temp cut and maintain the vibe of those scenes within the short time frame we have before delivery to our distributors. 
The edit process by Foton which started almost a month after we had offered to start working, because the files were not sent as agreed, has been as follows:
Performance focused pass of all the footage. (ongoing)
Per Scene assembly focusing on pacing within the scene. (February)
Full film assembly replicating the structure from Seth and Dean’s last cut. (March)
Full Film cut incorporating notes and comments from partners. (March)
Alternate cut of the film based on the following proposal (March):
	We believe that the actor’s performances can be improved considerably based on what we have already seen thus far and the structure could be improved. Many of the high roller situations that were in the script do not play as strongly as written and the action is not as well executed but we believe this can also be reworked. Additionally we believe there is a missed opportunity with regards to the social commentary that we thought the script was going to make and that the film could still potentially make. The struggle between generations and the polarized views boomers and millennials have with each other should be at the core of this film. Ok, Boomer. 
	To achieve this we propose that the VO in this alternate cut of the film no longer is told by Lance but instead should be told by Mel. We should see this millenial misadventure while hearing commentary, disapproval and even making fun of the crazy things that these millenials are doing. 
	All of this will culminate in the climax of the movie when Allie confronts Mel in the parking lot telling the Boomer that he is the same thing as them and that he can think whatever he wants but we are the same shit. 
	The tone of Mel’s VO for the rest of the film should be different proving a more clear arch for more of our characters while adding some comedy and an entire layer of depth and social impact to the storytelling that is already there. 
If you read them, do not take Universal’s notes without the context of how little they are even gambling on this film. In its current state this will just get fed into their pipeline output deals and we will never see anything above the offers and deals already on the table for those territories. Now if we do strive to take this film to another level and play at one of the top worldwide festivals then maybe we can go back to all of our initial expectations of potentially making several times our investment. 
We want to make this the best film it can be without continuing to go crazy with the budget. We believe that editorial, stock footage rights, music and the new VO can all be covered by 120k additional of current spend without the need for any reshoots which should make the overage land almost below 600k as opposed to the solid 700k we are currently looking at along with less dilution for everyone. 
Believe me when I tell you that this will let us have a film that will make Seth as a Director, all our actors, and all of us as producers feel proud of our work.
Rest assured, that from the moment we finally received the footage we have not stopped working on getting this closer to delivery and back to Seth and all the partners so we can all drive this home but we need a sign that this madness is all over so we can get to work. 
Please shoot me a text to coordinate a time so we can get on the phone so you and I can talk about all this. 

best



 </span>