# MERYL

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     #foton
How is everything? 
I got involved in this project because of the opportunity of working with you. I had not read little women at the moment and saw the Winona Ryder movie for the first time just a few months ago.
I always dug the concept but it was really about the chance at that collaboration with you and seeing how passionate you were about it that tipped the scales for me.
Since we initially spoke about this I have done all we agreed to do and have dedicated a considerable amount of time and resources as well as some funds into this project. 
On the other hand, we have missed out on your involvement which was the reason to do this in the first place and that makes no sense to me. 
This project does not exist without you and your involvement has been sorely missed but the dance with the different attorneys lasted up until just a month ago and was left with only three points that as it stands is at a deadlock with the attorneys and I think we need to fix it ourselves.
First was  an attachment after buyout proposed by your attorney which we can agree to.
Second is the $25k dev fee Foton was getting which your attorney proposed to split.
Then there is the issue with the Dev Fee and Net Profit split. Although I am all about equal partnerships I believe that there needs to be a place in which we reflect the balance of risk that we are undertaking as a company to move this project forward. 
Our money, our finding, contacting, contracting and paying for Alejandra and other dev costs, our in house resources, our Netflix contact as you originally proposed…
Now, understanding that there is nothing I want more than to count on your presence and influence within the entire process of what we are doing I have the need to understand what you have in mind with regards to your level of involvement and time commitment so we can design the process moving fwd in the best way possible and that way understand how you see the risk balance as equal. 
If you are in this fully and fired up so we can really count on your availability I am willing to increase the dev fee from 25k to 100k and make both the fee and the net profit split be 50/50 but to do this I will have to increase my cost recoupment premium to 30% of what is actually spent. 
Can we agree to this so we can finally get a good rhythm going?


 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Oblique; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     *Spoke NATPE Jan 2018
I reached out July 2018
Received one sheet September 2018
We propose Alejandra on November 2018 
We start talking term January 2019
Terms clarified in February 2019 (same terms as now)
Finish the attorney dance end of June 2019 (proposing different terms 5 months after we had understood it was agreed.) Still not signed and you propose a consultancy deal on top of everything.
Still no signature and attorneys at a deadlock.*

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     
CREATIVE
I think we have found a special and truly genuine voice. Which also happens to be quite on the revolutionary tip.
I believe that we can definitely steer this into a territory that better serves the many fans of Little Women but I also believe there is a lot of truth and relevance to what she brings to the table.
Somewhere in between those two sides is where this series would be most successful and we cannot find it without your active involvement to counteract that particular voice.
Alejandra is requesting a research trip to NY which we could take advantage of to meet in person and get everything merged onto a single track. 
If ultimately we need another writer we can get one but it would 




 </span>