# RD RR


**July 14 2015**

Maintaining involvement and control over the project as producer throughout all stages of the picture from development all the way through distribution.

Initial difference in budget vs original 3M investment.

What happens in the case of non action? What triggers it?

What happens in the case of not needing total budget or in the case of exceeding that budget.




**SBP Last Version v 070815**

**3.a. and 8.**
Add in addition to the picture... its story, characters, locations, illustrations… for things to be owned by RDA.

**6.a.** Really not a huge fan of losing influence over the project once the it is funded and the actual work begins. That is actually the only way I have of protecting this investment given how little assurance there is to begin with. What I meant when we spoke was to gurantee my involvement as Producer as well as RR’s Director role in the subsequent stages of the picture’s production. 

**12.a** Unites?
**12.c** Cool?


**Subscription Package** 
Same as original. Is the new documentation then effectively overriding this agreement or what was it that you reached with this point?

**Double R Productions LLC Agreement**
Seems same format as RD Animation LLC Agreement but with different Exhib A

**RD Animation LLC Agreement**
This document gets quite heavy in referencing other codes and articles as well as the first section with definitions. I can’t really say if there is anything out of the ordinary or that require attention in these sections. Did you look at it? Are you ok with everything? 

Either way a couple of things that caught my attention:

**Does this represent any potential risk?**
2.10 No State-Law Partnership. The Members intend that the Company not be a partnership, a limited partnership, or a joint venture, and that no Member or Manager be a partner or joint venturer of any other Member or Manager, for any purposes other than federal and state tax purposes, and this Agreement may not be construed to suggest otherwise.

**Worrying?**
3.1 ...Each Member represents that the Member is acquiring an interest in the Company for the account of such Member and not with a view to distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws. The Member will not transfer such interest in contravention of that act or any applicable state or federal securities laws.

**Exit clause?**
3.7 Withdrawal. No member shall have the authority to withdraw from the Company as a Member.

5.2.a. **Does this not seem way to discretionary? Especially given how that Class B payout is contingent upon much more specific things happening than just overflow of cash in the company.** 

**Worrying?**
5.2 (b) From time to time the Managers also may cause property of the Company other than cash to be distributed to the Members, which distribution must be made in accordance with the proportions set forth in paragraph 5.2(a) and may be made subject to existing liabilities and obligations. Immediately prior to such a distribution, the Capital Accounts of the Members shall be adjusted as provided in Treasury Regulation § 1.704- 1(b)(2)(iv)(f).
5.2 (c) For the purpose of determining the Members entitled to receive a distribution as provided for in this Agreement, the Managers may fix in advance a record date for any such determination of Members, such date in any case to be set not more than (30) days and not less than (3) days prior to the date on which the action authorizing the distribution is taken. If no record date is fixed, then the date on which the Managers take action to authorize such a distribution pursuant to this Agreement and the Internal Revenue Code, shall be the record date for such determination of Members.
**Therefor?**
6.1 (e)  to the extent that funds of the Company are available therefor, paying debts and obligations of the Company;
Too dense… went FFWD. 

The spouse signature and many things along the way are quite weird in my opinion. Did you say anything we should worry about?







____________________________________________________________________________

Due Diligence must be done and even when having received deliverables ande being agreed on terms the process is not instant as the funds need to be readied .

This rushed manner is not too reassuring. 

Agreement

Redline Notes

We need to protect against non action. 

We need to protect against transferring, dilution or other mechanism of removing value or involvement altogether with the investment.

We need to protect that what we say we are investing truly is what we are saying. Would like to go to Austin, look eye to eye and hear directly from Robert and Kevin that this really is what we are saying and not just some complex bait and switch in order to lock in the entire investment and deal with only one partner.

Intro ii why is sbprda together like that


