# The Raven

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     #foton/pictures/projects/theraven



Content for UCP

We need to create visuals as quickly as possible. We need to completely convince them that this is an amazing world that Ricardo, JM and EJ have created but Ricardo’s vision for the world is how we really play him up along with the project and I at least have not seen anything. Is there anything from the $2M in production assets?

We should consider expanding the information about society in the US and around the world in our story or around it. Within the script the central plot feels dated with a fear being generated by a type of terrorism that is not as top of mind nowadays. Privacy and surveillance / facial recognition which is covered in the script but at times overshadowed by the action sequences could be a great area. AI coming into play as the discussion between cops that kill minorities or robots that don’t make that distinction, or do they? as all programming is tainted by the programmer. I also think deepfakes could be a very cool thing to touch on as well. A serialized black mirror kind of feel?

How do we differentiate from XMen and legion and all the equivalent character/stories? Military is a cool angle but telekinesis is not that original, Neo, Doctor Strange, and several other super heroes types have used that ability in visually stunning ways. We have ONE really good sequence when he fights with the glass shards but beyond that we are not seeing anything we have not seen before. Same goes for the “resistance”. Noah is still too easy of a kill and in general they were too easily subdued. The need to conclude all this because we were limited to feature length is no longer necessary. We can build out these characters so when all the incredible things happen to them in the current script we actually care about them. The battle of the bastards is nowhere near as good if you had not seen everything that lead up to that cathartic feature length episode. 

The brown xmen is not enough. Maybe take Mendoza’s lead and make this way more politically charged? and about minorities in particular? immigraiton? Really aim at Netflix with its Patriot Act and skip button for Trump jokes vibe? Produced by UCP for Netflix of course.


 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **Script Notes 050719RD**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     GENERAL
Zoe: I like the new angle of activist and defender of the people. The symmetry now with Chris wanting to be a doctor and Zoe an attorney but both not having been able to chase those dreams given their family/economic circumstances is great in showing their stunted potential. Would still think of something to motivate Zoe further and give some insight into her following Chris and to what it is that she is envisioning as the result of her actions or where she wants to end up. Stakes are very high for her. In P60 her story about being a vet and the corresponding anecdote feels out of place now and that same time and dialogue could be used to instead develop her further. Is there a way to transmit a similar concept to what is there about the animals not seeing it coming (i.e. The frog in the water that slowly heats to a boil and does not notice) but using her new angle as attorney and potential defender of the people?
Love the idea of the locket as a tool to show the progression of Chris’ capacity to control his own powers. Still would be great to understand if his struggle is about evolving his capacity to control the weapon side of things or if it is more like a kind of Hulk dynamic? That the powers are there and at full power but he loses conscious control when he taps into it or gets into it out of a defense reflex and what tires him out and drains him throughout the movie is not so much the use of the powers but more his fighting against that reflex of weapon-mode and being able to consciously control his powers? Similar to his dynamic between the father/husband and the soldier roles that he used to play in life. Also would be cool if there is a moment in which Zoe is even afraid of him… is it that she is a fearless badass or that she does not fall for the Raven propaganda?
The reveals of the story and how the entire Raven universe unfolds around us could benefit from some polish in this next round with Elgin. The concepts are there and the sequence is effective but it is missing some depth still. I like the inclusion of the talking heads but the actual exposition could be more effective of showing a divided country and an oppressed people to better frame how the risk Zoe is taking is worth it. 
Why are people leaving the US? Just fear of the Ravens or is there more going on? General oppression? Rolling blackouts? Is any country safe? Are Ravens only in America? How are you affected if you are not a Raven? If it is a witch hunt and you are not a witch how does the entire US feel affected by this? Oppression? Broader discrimination? Is the Raven issue just a distraction for something else beyond just greed through weapons industry? 

PAGES
P10 / Really like the newscast modifications! Maybe not in this opportunity in particular as we have a couple in which we use the TV for exposition but I would still consider one of those multi (4 or 5) talking heads discussion panels. I think they have become extremely representative of American news for the world and it is also a way to make exposition by showing the sides (Newscaster (honest or manipulated), Senator (military angle), Candidate (a la Bernie but completely overpowered and meek), Wall Street Expert (economic benefit), Security Expert (homeland security expert). Have them pretty much yelling over each other unintelligibly as we look away from the TV. Maybe even in less time and with probably the same amount of dialogue it can say much more as well as really bring up the audience’s visceral reaction to this kind of a newscast. 
P14 / Why is the walker program controversial? Because of the cost? Would be cool if the controversy is driven by the fact that they are repeating some of the things from The Raven program and those coincidences between the programs is what is generating all the fear and controversy.
P43 / Careful Chris doesn’t delve into unlikeable character territory or hitting the “Martyr” concept too on the nose.
P45 / Why are Zoe and Vic stuck in a life of dime bags and fencing stolen shit? Is automation and AI taking people’s jobs? Beyond the fear tactics used to manipulate a populace for economic gain I have yet to see actions taken by the government that would trigger such a mass exodus.
P43 / I thought it was very motivating for Zoe and Victoria as character to see what this kind of money could do for their future. Gives meaning to their crazy risky actions and makes it more painful to see Victoria die just moments after they finally had gotten their golden ticket. Does Zoe have a dream or is she just disillusioned with everything?
P57 / Although it fits with many aspects of the character and story I feel the Medic decision is a tad bit out of place with a character that we see develop the War Symptoms and the obsessions that we see in Chris after being deployed so many times. 
If he is just a good doctor that joins up because he wants to help people as a medic then what drove the character to evolve out of that mentality and into the addiction with being deployed. Seems like having the starting point be Family Man & Soldier then turn into Victim & Fugitive over to Weapon & Absent Father and later to see the tougher transformation into Protector & Leader seems more natural and a more complete cycle for the audience on how they perceive Chris.
P58 / Here Hugo could react to the news about Victoria which just happened and also get very pissed at this asshole Raven being here putting her cousin in danger and in his eyes being the one responsible for Victoria’s death. From our perspective what helps him get over all of this and justifies him helping Zoe is their family connection. 
P67 / Zoe needs higher stakes to do everything she’s doing right now. Right? For 20k or to get with Chris seems extremely low stakes for all that she is risking and that is without mentioning the death of her best friend. She could have gone with Hugo at this last moment and bailed on a dead end street of a situation. 
P67 / Lang needs another device to replace his Fam Love being so tragic right? Something that fits better with the new concept?
P78 / This news footage could also give a bit more. They specify “American” terrorist. So this is not a problem elsewhere?
P83-84 / I feel like there needs to be something else that makes Olivia go from not caring and about to hang up, to listening but saying there is nothing you can do all the way to helping them in the end. Just the fact that Chris says that he is a Raven makes it a bit obvious after having said he is Chris Black and getting no reaction. I liked his pleading of wanting his old life more than this or maybe find some more complex logic to hide how this is as setup even further. Or is it that Lang and his men are not orchestrating this at all and it is simply that Olivia and Hopkins hit the jackpot?
P90 / How come as soon as Reyes calls in that they got into police car 233 on 5th and Main do we cut to Lang with no idea where Chris has gone. He seems to finally realize later.
P92 / Why would the crowd know who Chris is? Has been in the news by now too? Or is it from some fragment of backstory?
P106 / I like the idea of Lang being there with Chris in the opening scene but was Lang already a Raven back then, but Chris wasn’t? Was their entire unit the beta test for the Ravens? Or was Lang the Raven talent scout to later become the hunter?


 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **Script Notes 050119RD**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     GENERAL
Can we find motivation for Zoe that is not pinned on her past with Hugo or future with Chris?
The progression of Chris’ capacity to control his own powers is a great idea. There is a clear improvement but it is a bit difficult to spot as specifically about control opposed to him simply getting stronger over time as it is never mentioned that it is more of a matter of harnessing his capacity.  Or is it more his evolving capacity to control the weapon side of things like a kind of Hulk dynamic? The powers are there and at full power but he loses conscious control when he taps into it or gets into it out of a defense reflex and what tires him out and drains him throughout the movie is not so much the use of the powers but more his fighting against that reflex and being able to consciously control the weapon? Similar to his dynamic between the father/husband and the soldier roles that he used to play in life. Also would be cool if there is a moment in which Zoe is even afraid of him… is it that she is a badass or that she does not fall for the Raven propaganda?
The reveals of the story and how the entire Raven universe unfolds around us could benefit from some polish in this next round with Elgin. The concepts are there and the sequence is effective but it is missing some depth still. 
Why are people leaving the US? Just fear of the Ravens or is there more going on? Is any country safe? Are Ravens only in America? How are you affected if you are not a Raven? If it is a witch hunt and you are not a witch how does the entire US feel affected by this? Oppression? Broader discrimination? Is the Raven issue just a distraction for something else beyond just greed through weapons industry? 



PAGES
P10 / Really like the newscast modifications! Maybe not in this opportunity in particular as we have a couple in which we use the TV for exposition but I would still consider one of those multi (4 or 5) talking heads discussion panels. I think they have become extremely representative of American news for the world and it is also a way to make exposition by showing the sides (Newscaster (honest or manipulated), Senator (military angle), Candidate (a la Bernie but completely overpowered and meek), Wall Street Expert (economic benefit), Security Expert (homeland security expert). Have them pretty much yelling over each other unintelligibly as we look away from the TV. Maybe even in less time and with probably the same amount of dialogue it can say much more as well as really bring up the audience’s visceral reaction to this kind of a newscast. 
P12 / Don’t understand what the yellow tape says about what might have happened. The new exposition reads great and provides some very welcome context to the great migration leaving the US. Still not clear on why they left in such a rush or why the yellow tapes would even be there. Also still weirded out by the house being a time capsule. Why did they need leave in such a hurry? This is all improved by what you added of a third of all houses looking abandoned but I still think there could be more explanation as to why they were singled out and what singled out actually meant.
P14 / Why is the walker program controversial? Because of the cost? Would be cool if the controversy is driven by the fact that they are repeating some of the things from The Raven program and those coincidences between the programs is what is generating all the fear and controversy.
P25 / The sound to destroy the rumbler is much simple now. Would imagine this is to the effect of a clearer evolution to Chris’ powers but still an awesome action sequence ando concept. 
P43 / Tupac Amaru!!! Like the switch. Careful Chris doesn’t delve into unlikeable character territory or hitting the “Martyr” concept too on the nose.
P43 / What implication does she resent from Chris assuming the phones don’t work?
P45 / Why are Zoe and Vic stuck in a life of dime bags and fencing stolen shit? Is automation and AI taking people’s jobs? Beyond the fear tactics used to manipulate a populace for economic gain I have yet to see actions taken by the government that would trigger such a mass exodus.
P43 / I thought it was very motivating for Zoe and Victoria as character to see what this kind of money could do for their future. Gives meaning to their crazy risky actions and makes it more painful to see Victoria die just moments after they finally had gotten their golden ticket. Does Zoe have a dream or is she just disillusioned with everything?
P56 / Cool side-scene on the bus!
P57 / Although it fits with many aspects of the character and story I feel the Medic decision is a tad bit out of place with a character that we see develop the War Symptoms and the obsessions that we see in Chris after being deployed so many times. 
If he is just a good doctor that joins up because he wants to help people as a medic then what drove the character to evolve out of that mentality and into the addiction with being deployed. Seems like having the starting point be Family Man & Soldier then turn into Victim & Fugitive over to Weapon & Absent Father and later to see the tougher transformation into Protector & Leader seems more natural and a more complete cycle for the audience on how they perceive Chris. Especially with Zoe as a veterinarian it seems a bit redundant like the two people that want to heal the world. 
P58 / Here Hugo could react to the news about Victoria which just happened and also get very pissed at this asshole Raven being here putting her cousin in danger and in his eyes being the one responsible for Victoria’s death. From our perspective what helps him get over all of this and justifies him helping Zoe is their family connection. 
P67 / Zoe needs higher stakes to do everything she’s doing right now. Right? For 20k or to get with Chris seems extremely low stakes for all that she is risking and that is without mentioning the death of her best friend. She could have gone with Hugo at this last moment and bailed on a dead end street of a situation. 
P67 / Lang needs another device to replace his Fam Love being so tragic right? Something that fits better with the new concept?
P78 / This news footage could also give a bit more. They specify “American” terrorist. So this is not a problem elsewhere?
P82 / Chris takes Esme’s stuffed rabbit and has been carrying it with him ever since? Still seems weird. So he is doing everything we have seen while always carrying a backpack? 
P84 / I feel like there needs to be something else that makes Olivia go from not caring and about to hang up, to listening but saying there is nothing you can do all the way to helping them in the end.  Maybe find some more complex logic to hide how this is as setup even further. 
P90 / How come as soon as Reyes calls in that they got into police car 233 on 5th and Main do we cut to Lang with no idea where Chris has gone. He seems to finally realize later.
P91 / Zoe’s “Holy Fucking Shit!!” LOL
P100 / Agreed on removing “Zoe’s Messy Apartment Joke” but have mixed feelings about their reaction still being comical when it was changed to alertness.
P106 / I like the idea of Lang being there with Chris in the opening scene but was Lang already a Raven back then, but Chris wasn’t? Was their entire unit the beta test for the Ravens? Or was Lang the Raven talent scout to later become the hunter?
P113 / This is the first time it feels this way so it could be “read it too many times syndrome kicking in” but Chris leaving that stuffed Rabbit as a sign that he was there and that he cares doesn’t play through as clearly positive given that now Esme seemingly did not even like the stuffed rabbit from the flashback, during the dash to escape their home it was mistakenly/decidedly left behind. Also, how would Clara even feel about Chris being there sneaking around? Don’t think the feeling when she discovers it on the fence will be of “we are being watched over” but rather “we are being watched”. 




 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **Script Notes 41619RD**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     General
Can we find motivation for Zoe that is not pinned on her past with Hugo or future with Chris?
The progression of Chris’ capacity to control his own powers is a great idea. There is a clear improvement but it is a bit difficult to spot as specifically about control opposed to him simply getting stronger over time as it is never mentioned that it is more of a matter of harnessing his capacity.  Or is it more his evolving capacity to control the weapon side of things like a kind of Hulk dynamic? The powers are there and at full power but he loses conscious control when he taps into it or gets into it out of a defense reflex and what tires him out and drains him throughout the movie is not so much the use of the powers but more his fighting against that reflex and being able to consciously control the weapon? Similar to his dynamic between the father/husband and the soldier roles that he used to play in life. 
Should the walker / military angle of the story be introduced sooner?
On Victoria / Zoe / Chris apartment scene they should be SCARED, definitely not as joking and light there.
I think I’d want Chris’s stakes to be based much more on him carrying some sort of secret. It’s almost as if there’s no use to the initial Afghanistan scene now. We need something more at stake through him. 
Love the ending!


Page numbers correspond to the original edited pdf with asterisks. File named:
CHRIS BLACK - THE RAVEN 41619RD.pdf
P10 / Really like the newscast as replacement. Would consider one of those multi talking head discussion panels as the closing to show the polarization between the sides and maybe expose a little more of the political dynamic within the country or even the world around it. I like that they are talking about the situation and more ambiguously taking part in the propaganda instead of directly. Maybe avoid the final line from the News Anchor as it is more in the style of the PSA and use the setup of congress getting pressure to approve the extra billions as the central question and segue to the panel discussion. Would use the polarized panel to rile up the conversation and do some more exposition. Why are people leaving? Just fear of the Ravens or is there more going on? Is any country safe? Are Ravens only in America? This could also be a place to set up the 4th of July Massacre and Noah as the bogeyman instead of the current news story about Indianapolis.
P 11-12 / Why is the Black family lucky that they got over the wall when they did? Still weirded out by the house being a time capsule. Why did they need leave in such a hurry? 
P 13 / Not sure about removing the flashback. I agree and share not being a fan of it as a story device but that moment in particular and as it breaks into details as we revisit it later is very effective within the entire story and provides the reveal to the psychological scars of war not only on Chris but on his family. The bus scene although maybe stereotypical provides a familiar setting to set the stakes and also evolve it as is done with Chris Black. Already having the memory play out more one sided and positive towards Chris and then later revealing how he really felt about leaving makes a familiar scene and situation surprising.
P19 / Nice touch with the windshield instead of the previous option.
P21 / To Chris’ power progression the level of control he seems to have in page when he breaks the door seems a bit easy. Maybe struggle a bit and set up Zoe’s taunting. 
P23 / Great switch on the Rumbler’s dying words.
P30 / When the GMC Trucks show up is it not obvious to the reporter that central government is involved hence confirming the Raven presence? 
P34 / What does this mean? “I can’t just blow two cameras it’s going to break all glass around, just like in the bus. “ 
P34-35 / Should Chris still be exhausted anymore? We had the entire Noah scene now pushing this further back in time. 
P37 / What does DHS stand for?
*P38 / Thanks for toning down the mayor. Could be more to the interaction. There could be a much more real struggle for power and jurisdiction here and more revealing than the struggle Lang has with McKenna as she is higher up in authority. Can she stand up to them? Does she even try? Maybe threaten to call an even higher up person than her? Or are they outside the system entirely?
P40 / Pardon my bias but although among the most high concept symbols for revolution I don’t dig El Che as the connection here. What are we transmitting? Only that she is a revolutionary thinker? If so can there be more to it? Along the lines of my general comment regarding Zoe’s motivations. 
P40 / What implication does she resent from Chris assuming the phones don’t work?
Up to page 42 / Great action, but I’d still need work on dialogue. Didn’t like McKenna vs. Lang dialogue either. 
P42 / Why are Zoe and Vic stuck in a life of dime bags and fencing stolen shit?
P42 / I think the changes in the apartment scene were all improvements but would consider to keep tweaking the dynamic between Victoria and Zoe even further, maybe even the connection with Hugo. He could be a cousin or family member to Zoe making his betrayal more painful and unexpected. Could also refocus the romantic aspect to Victoria, justifying how much she seems to hate him and later have him mourn her death but in the end proving Victoria right about him being a piece of shit when he betrays his own cousin/fam. As it stands with them talking so much shit about Hugo it is not hard to see the betrayal from a mile away. Maybe give some more motivation to all of them. Still have not seen general misery or justification beyond the curfew which is not clear if it is permanent and the newscasts to simply understand wanting to get out of the US so badly much less leave in a rush like the Black family. 
P43 / Why remove from Zoe’s line that this money could be their future? Gives meaning to their crazy actions and makes it more painful to see her die after they finally had gotten their golden ticket.
P44 / This News story really is what sets up the impact of having met Noah which now plays after that scene. Maybe this can be moved to swap or merge with the first newscast and discussion of the upcoming anniversary of the event and setting the stakes and context. Could we also show some other aspect of life in this world? The political and media turmoil could be made more present and more explicit. This would all be in addition of what is already there, not replacing it or some of these voices could just become part of the panel discussion and special report.
P46 / You wouldn’t have to change the dialogue here if Hugo was Zoe’s cousin and Victoria’s ex. 
P50 / Love the books catching the bullets.
P51 / When Chris comes back to his senses after the fight sequence is the first time we really see the struggle of the power in Chris beyond his exhaustion. Could it be dropped in gradually from before?
P56 / Here Hugo could mourn Victoria which just happened and also got very pissed at this asshole Raven being here putting her cousin in trouble and in his eyes causing Victoria’s death. From our perspective what helps him get over all of this and justifies him helping Zoe is their family connection which only needs a tweak on the “..deny even knowing me” solution. She could just rest assured that he knows how to hide, that the money is good and that he is doing this to save Zoe which also applies to Hugo setting them up as he might think that that is really saving her from this terrorist.
P65 / Zoe needs higher stakes to do everything she’s doing right now. Right?
P66 / How does destroying the lamps help against Hunters w AR Sunglasses?
P75 / Could Noah have one last attempt at relighting with fire as soon as he finishes saying his last line and that’s what finishes setting off Lang’s weapon reflexes making his “excuse” to the other hunter’s for killing him be true.
P75 / This news footage could also give a bit more. They specify “American” terrorist. So this is not a problem elsewhere?
P79 / Chris takes Esme’s stuffed rabbit and has been carrying it with him ever since?
P81 / If they are never going to meet in person why would Olivia even say her name.
P87 / How come as soon as Reyes calls in that they got into police car 233 on 5th and Main do we cut to Lang with no idea where Chris has gone. He seems to finally realize later on P92.
P88 / 3rd or 4th time Zoe says shit… new thing to say?
P97 / The filthier places joke seems out of place here. 
P103 / I like the idea of Lang being there with Chris in the opening scene but was Lang already a Raven back then but Chris wasn’t? Was Lang the FIRST SARGEANT from the first scene?
P103 / Chris’ eyes flutter shut but how do we see it with the HOOD over his head. 
P112 / Che comes full circle. I know it is the quintessential symbol of revolution but there needs to be something else that does not cause such a negative reaction from certain people including most Cuban Americans. 




 </span>