# Gigante

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     #foton/pictures/projects/gigante







 </span># 2025

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;">
     February

Talking with TelevisaUnivision for them to license us the footage as an independent feature and include premium series as well. 

Develop an updated pitch for Javiera Balmaceda at Amazon and define the dimensions of how the project would make sense for them. 



 </span>









# 2023
 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     
This process and the way it has been handled has concluded in us losing Disney and what would have been the best possible homage to Mario, SG and their legacies along with Foton taking a devastating economic blow and carrying over 350k in losses. 

I believe we still have a shot at making this at a similar level and reach with Apple and possibly another partner but we cannot engage in any conversation until the rights are cleared.

Negotiation has 3 main deals:


 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * GIGANTE FOOTAGE

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* Gigante’s right to use all of SG footage for documentary series about Latinos.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * VIX Show

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* Televisa and Mario’s option to develop and produce a new show for VIX

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     		* 3 years

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     		* Best efforts

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     		* Creative approvals

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     		* Business approvals

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     		* Ownership

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * SG LIBRARY

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* Usage of the SG library in all media in the future

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     		* 2 Months to reach an agreement.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     		* All revenues stemming from its use on any and all Televisa platforms, channels, etc will be solely for Televisa

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     		* Gadol to get a cut of any and all third party sales done by Televisa.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     
We need to document the Gigante deal with absolute freedom of use and make it contingent on VIX Show option and SG Library LOI signature. 

VIX Show terms seemed to have been agreeable. 

SG Library

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * 12 Months to reach an agreement.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * All revenues in any and all media to provide some participation to GADOL

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* Gross points… 1%-5%?

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* Net Points 30%-50%

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     



Call w Brian 3/17/23
We have a no objection letter from Televisa which is great progress. It is tied to the agreement for Mario’s 50% of the rights which we also have a draft for finally which is being reviewed by our counsel and the team at D&C.
Outstanding points that we are pushing back on for the Televisa no objection letter is the following

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * To add Indemnification and Release of Liability and Covenant not to sue

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Telemundo / Azteca branded media cannot be licensed Gigante for exhibition by Disney during the license term

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Will not Malign language

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     
I am ok with sending you the Gadol agreement understanding that this is not acceptable to us and we are going back to them on changes. 
————————

Options
Quid pro quo and criticism as main 2 points

Gigante for Disney
DF for Televisa

Window or Carve out for Televisa



————————

Call w Maggie
Feels like they are going back on their word. 
The subject of oversight from them in contrast to it being a license deal since the very beginning was justified clearly by their cash-flowing the production. 
Back in Q2 last year we insisted on covering production costs in exchange for removing that oversight. They in turn insisted on cash flowing bi weekly and have complete oversight and approval over all hires, schedules and budgets which in the end we collectively as partners had decided to really play at the Disney level, excel within their standards and agree to their terms even though it is out of the norm in a license deal.
Now a year later they have not paid a single dollar and we are nearly 400k into this ambitious production having made excellent progress on many fronts and having collected material, prepared and sought interviews have continued to shoot once in a lifetime moments as they happened with dedicated hired crew that has been actively working on the project since spring of last year all under the oversight and approval of Onyx/Disney executives.
They now go back on their cashflowing and even introduce contradicting greenlight language nearly a year after it was an already active production. There is a feeling of being singled out as having ample experience in unscripted production, we do not believe that this is common practice to insist on all material being cleared before greenlight or cashflow for documentary features and series at this level. 



TELEVISA
This situation with TU’s 50% of the rights are already documented as agreeable with limitations that we could work around creatively but limited to one commercial difference in the exclusion of México, which we have been told is only a matter of time. 
The impact of the merger into what became the largest spanish-language media company in the world now run by Televisa leadership was foreseeable but we were due to get our deal cleared done long before it all went down. This was not possible and we were bounced around by different legal teams within the company to the point that the matter is now being overseen by the GC, deputy GC and EVP on the legal side and with the direct involvement from the President (Pierluigi) and the CEO (Bernardo) of Televisa evidencing how important this is to them. 
We have seen emails from DF asking personally, offering to work with them on other things for Vix+ off their request and is soon to speak with Emilio Azcarraga directly, stating the utmost importance for his legacy that this documentary be done in this way and with our partners at Onyx. On top of all this, Televisa is clearly now trying to get us to make the series for Vix+ instead of Disney with acquisition executives from the streamer trying to make that happen reaching out to people on my team and Mario’s family to open that conversation. 
We could remove that greenlight language, start cashflowing by reminding our partners at Onyx of their word and continue making this for them as was originally envisioned and agreed upon or even offer to cashflow once again in exchange for removal of that oversight and a possible trimming of their term or limiting their rights allowing for other windows 
OR we could explore a new route…


Gigante 2.0
Regardless of our confidence in that we will get these rights from Televisa we can also see a new and maybe better path forward. One in which we maintain the core mission of telling the history of Latinos but partially thanks to the frustration caused by Televisa we would now be able to lean into a previously impossible angle of DF, Mario’s life and his perspective from where he stands looking back at his legacy and an intertwined existence with Sábado Gigante and the very concept of what it means to be Latino with the good and the bad. 
This is actually more in line with what Jihan and Jackie have steered us towards creatively of more character driven fare and seeing film festivals for the last year filled with life stories of icons it can very possibly be the best and broadest version of this series. We still will have complete access to his life, the history of the show from his perspective, all personal archive and absolutely every episode of SG from its beginning up until the 90s when the rights are split with Univisión but still with Mario having 50% ownership over all rights related to the series and for which we have an ongoing analysis by Davis Wright Tremaine with regards to Fair Use. 
We captured the momentous occasion of Don Francisco hosting his very last Teletón an ultra successful 27-hour live transmission charity drive that happens every year in chile that over its lifetime has raised over 750M USD and we captured the moment in which he handed off the reins after 44 years of hosting duties and sharing his hope and worry that it will continue growing as it has all these years without his stewardship. This is something that we shot because of its value and significance for the story we are trying to tell and are at crossroads that if we find ourselves having lost the support of our partners and would like to have your insight as to what our options could be in standing our ground with what was agreed upon or even going back to fully financing and using the new material to share a peek to more committed partners to make this series.


Insight - back up
This is all speculation but the perspective of how our highly experienced legal team with longstanding relationships with Televisa and its executives is that there could be other aspects of the deal given how old it is that could become points to be negotiated separately related of their relationship with DF that might be on their agenda. Like a lack of definition for new exploitation rights like avod and fast channels in a 30+ year old agreement.


 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **Jan 24, 2023 Call with the Socios**

 </span>
 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * You guys seem pretty chill about everything. What’s up?

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Waiting on result of Azcarraga outreach.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Will be contacting Pierluigi next week.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Isaac Lee connect with Bernardo Gomez week of 2/2

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Continue with archival work?

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * D&C on hold but would include within what is worth keeping active.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* Explore Fair use right for materials.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Gabriela on hold but would activate somehow.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Call with Rovegno to talk year 11 license or opportunities?

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Apple as alternative?

 </span>
 <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **Onyx Agreement Review as of Dec 15, 2022**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     1. Agreed

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     2. Agreed on not being able to negotiate this further and find it would have little impact anyway.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     3. This is the big one. I don’t think there is any choice here and indeed it is the leap of faith on our part. I continue being confident that it should be a matter of time and think that having the deal closed with Onyx will actually help the process as I think part of TU’s hope is that it would fall through. Maybe we can explore additional language but think it might not be worth the possible delay it could cause and not to mention any risk in destabilizing the deal itself.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     4. Agreed and not worried. We can do other projects with DF if we so choose as long as they are not biographical and even if that were the case it is just a simple matter of going to Onyx first.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     5. Agreed as is.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     6. Agreed as is and understand it is in the budget.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     7. Ok with Cali law.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     8. Definitely push back on the award nomination language as it was negotiated. Only thing I would fight on.

 </span>
 <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 21.0;text-align: left;">
     **Document Review**

 </span>
 <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 15.0;text-align: left;">
     **Onyx Agreements
Gigante - PtS - Onyx Collective - Indemnity - Foton Pictures LLC NLO v3 DLA 07 01 22**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Looks great! No comments. 

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 15.0;text-align: left;">
     **Gigante -  License - Onyx Collective - Foton Pictures LLC - v1 DLA 07 05 2022 Draft**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Looks good. Several comments in the attached file. 
Intrigued about the lack of edits and comments for Exhibit CB-Onyx. Was everything agreeable or do you simply foresee not chance of modifying it?



 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 15.0;text-align: left;">
     **Corporate Documents
PSA between Socios Gigantes and Producciones Gigantes**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Looks good. Only one request of adding language in the notices section and a comment on optics regarding signature order and list order. 

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 15.0;text-align: left;">
     **Socios Gigantes LLC - Operating Agreement - Term Sheet**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Looks good. Several comments and questions in the document as well as some edits. 
The main outside point that I want to leave open to negotiation pending the definitive agreement on terms of Alex and Kareem’s individual contracts as well as definitive agreement on terms for Gadol’s contracts is to somehow compensate in the fixed compensation split for how we as partners are absorbing the WME costs and they in turn are saving their own payment to WME for their commission and would like to find a way to propose it. Not to mention they little value they continue to bring to project outside of their Showrunner and Director functions which they are directly compensated for in their individual deals. This has been discussed with them in the past but cannot engage in a conversation like this until we are clear on all of the above. Please advise if you have any ideas on how to best protect for this or at least conserve that this later conversation/renegotiation can happen in good faith between the partners. 

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 15.0;text-align: left;">
     **Socios Gigantes LLC - OA Term Sheet - Trojan Contribution Agreement**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Updated Notices Section

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 15.0;text-align: left;">
     **Socios Gigantes LLC - OA Term Sheet - Foton Contribution Agreement**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Updated Notices Section

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 15.0;text-align: left;">
     **Socios Gigante [sic] LLC - OA Term Sheet - Foton Certificate of Engagement**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Looks Good. 

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 15.0;text-align: left;">
     **Socios Gigante [sic] LLC - OA Term Sheet - Key Rat and Tropical Certificate of Engagement**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Looks Good. 



 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **Creative Call w Onyx on Jun 27, 2022**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Feels academic

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Missing a heart

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* Mucho was referenced with Walter being that… is it Mario that in this case?

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Not clear what is verité and what is the visual and tonal treatment for all of it.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Set up more for a broader audience.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Contemporary lens that we go into this from the get go

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* Why this? Why this story? Why now?

 </span>
 <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **Partner Production Call Jan 31, 2022**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     Updated Gigante Call Agenda

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     1. Onyx agreement. Let’s close it ASAP.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     2. Legal:

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	1. Setting SPE

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	2. Individual director and show-runner agreement.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	3. Choose production Legal.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     3. Pre-Production:

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	1. Dividing rolls and responsibilities

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	2. Setting offices (production and archival)

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	3. Set weekly meeting

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	4. LP

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	5. Crew

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     4. Creative:

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	1. Script/treatment

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	2. Extra writer

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	3. Interview list (SG Booker)

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     5. Archival process and crew

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     
Misc: Setup budget discussion call. 




Instead of who would buy this… it should be more about… what is the story we want to tell and what… maybe mention legacy and how he is now looking back at everything and this entire history with the eyes of today… what it means to be a latino today and if this truly was the common unifiying cultural experience… Latino is REAL now. 

The persona of Don Francisco reveal feels like it happens twice



 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **Deck Notes**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     En of page 16 and beg of 17 repeat the same text.
Page 10 no es Sabados Gigantes? missing second S



 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 18.0;text-align: left;">
     **The Not so fond memories of Sábado Gigante**

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     [When it Comes to ‘Sábado Gigante’ and Our Generation, It’s Complicated](https://remezcla.com/lists/culture/when-it-comes-to-sabado-gigante-and-our-generation-its-complicated/)
 </span>
 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     [Latinos outgrew Sábado Gigante’s racism and misogyny long before it ended | Aura Bogado | The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/apr/20/latinos-sabado-gigante-racism-misogyny-lended)
 </span>