# IVC BOD


## Board of Directors November 18 2016



## 
Content Committee September 13th 2016



## Board of Directors August 25th 2016

Content committee should be expanded to look at more things. Much in this presentation that I had not seen before as well as spots and ads that went out without real discussion or approval.


PLEASE RESPECT THE GRAPHICS PACKAGE. Time spent on getting creative could be better spent on the content of the promos themselves.

Promo LVBP
- Si queremos resaltar la calidad y nivel de la producción no usemos filtros y efectos que degradan la calidad visual.
- No creo que SKA es lo que mas va con la audiencia y nota del beisbol en Venezuela. Sounds like a jingle.

Promo MLB 1st
- Seems to be a lack of types of shots... Overuse again of effects and transitions.

Promo MLB Vero Gómez
- Excellent.

Movie Promo 1
- Well cut. Sound bytes missing. Close is strange. 

Movie Promo 2
- Well cut. Sound bytes missing more evident. Close is strange.

Elementary Promo
- Meh

Amas de Casa Promo
- great female programming block.

Promo nostalgia Venezuela
- Talent content is very deficient. Would remove them completely and re-do VO.

GFX/OnAir
- Siguen usand el 3D effect en el slogan y logo.

## Marketing
- BTL event looks great.
- Insist on taking clients to the game.
- ClassLight deal is great.














## Marketing June 2016

Feel the need for a more generic campaign focusing on the name of the channel itself. By the process of SHOWING and not TELLING what we have and connecting that with the name and look of the network is when we truly start creating brand equity.

Since the channel changes so drastically depending on the time of year maybe we should have similar breakdown in our communication of what the channel is.

Thematic as well as programming groups.

PARTE DE TI


MAS CERCA 
Seen it before and still transmits no true value to the audience.

TOMA EL CONTROL
Compared to SVOD, digital and other services it seems false.

TU NUEVO CANAL
Concepto principal /// custom made, a medida, como te gusta...
Opciones de la reunión
Naciendo de cerca de ti... Es para ti




## MIPCOM 2015 

## Sony

Arctic Air
Murdock Mysteries

Need to confirm start date for license period.

speak with rights in exchange for dubbing
$2k

Follow up w Monica Veiga