# RESEARCH

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     #intel
Future of Storytelling Conference

————————

Hacker Interview / Josh Klein

Research 
cryptography
Block chain

Blackmarket
By 2020 2/3 of all transactions will be in the black market
1 in every 7 dollars in the US is being spent on the black market

Book /
Repetition Economics

Meritocracy
/ 
Stack Overflow
Used for Tech coding problems that establishes a rating system for the best collaborators on the site.

Remittances could be the breakthrough for cryptocurrency

Coinbase... BBVA invested in it

Contentious

Microsoft Patents
Influence rating / if you have influence over the choice of a product you will get a score
If you have a high score pricing will dynamically adapt to discount and if you have a low or negative score you will priced out of the purchase so you don't speak about it.

————————

Groovety


 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     **Research / Investigate / Pending**
 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     

What was the true impact of Digital Terrestrial Television in the US Television market.

Pichy Boys

Alexis Valdez

Robin Carril - Rep All Things Cuban

Thermae Romae - Mari Yamazaki 

El Libro de los Insectos Humanos - Osamu Tezuka

Homonculus - Yamamoto Hideo

Research 30 for 30
Bill Simmons

————————

Figure out a dollar to ratings point ratio… Production / Acquisition cost divided by the ratings number.

————————

Research sleep paralysis for a horror movie 

————————

————————

————————

————————


 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     **Telefe Strategy**
 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     

Nace de Ventas

Profundizar el conocimiento.

Go from obsolete ratings system originally based households. Taken into more subdivided 

Agencies always 

Conocimiento profundo sobre los mismos clientes

una vez al año se juntan los jefes de ventas de todos los broadcasters. Autopsia de cada sector y cliente.
 </span>