# Reacting to The Shift

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     #ideas #OleCom/cc/csm 
An idea could be that we stagger premieres and reruns to the closest seasonality possible in every feed. Take the school year as reference since some countries near the equator have very hard to discern seasonality.
Sure it is available right away elsewhere. But it matters to have the truly good shows. The ones that people actually want to watch. Netflix viewership is dwarfing cable in hours of content watched. I believe it is because of this.
They launched an acquisitions onslaught that let that moment's subscriber base become a sample in the best content consumption habits study ever crafted. They needed everything to know what people actually wanted to watch. Although some choices might seem obvious some I'm sure even surprised them. But now they know. They know exactly what people want to watch and how they want to consume it, and every new show gives them more information. And not only information about individual shows but also how people move from one show to another. Both in discovery and in actual consumption. Do they watch only one show at a time or do they watch a couple and binge on weekends. It is just like when we took it from the same exact 3 meals every day at the same time to a full menu with over 200 choices but also available at those exact times. It changed everything. Now this opposed to the rigid linear schedule of broadcast it is like set mealtimes with said 200 options compared to the food just being there exactly when and how you want it. And you can watch anywhere you want.
Buy first 6 months. Go completely seasonal and throw off Netflix or SVOD purposely. Give them 6 months while you keep premiering content and catch the rights back 6-12 months later after they burned it for another run, hence may be cheaper and you keep it for true catch up library. Everyone is going to buy out everything that is worthy. Emmy-winning orphan black. The preference for miniseries events. Complete story telling experiences instead of tidbits of story with some puzzle in the middle that confounds the characters and the audience for about 44 minutes.
Through Linear/TVE and SVOD we can compete as well and if we are able to stay relevant in what is already happening an earlier window and then keep it for long-term will probably be what they are thinking as well and the good stuff will run out fast and start getting more expensive. But it is that same audience we have always known, and some new ones. We just need to catch up on intelligence from gathering to discovery algorithms and UI.
We also need to have a tiered no-commercial version of the service. 
In the meantime they created many relationships with the world's best creative talents and offered them true creative license and money to spend. They are going for the true exclusive and will throw a fat NETFLIX ORIGINALS on that and local exclusives from 3rd parties. 
We must have those rights in our output deals but must be allowed to be selective to maintain linear/firstsvod against our competitors fighting for the same product. Until they see it as truly global Only brand that can truly compete is with HBO and others need to bite the bullet again and HBO needs to step the fuck up right now. That is the true chance to survive in a longer term or actually grow and increase revenue and profit margins in the sooner than you might think term.
Originals now take a completely different perspective in which global purchasing power is key to even sit at the table. We need to invest heavily compared to current levels but the content amortization happens over a grander scale of subscribers that share the same language (LatAm/USHisp/Spain/etc) or that are used to watching things subtitled or dubbed.
 </span>