# WFH

 <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     #OleCom/Board
Have been doing this with my company for many years now. Everything that has been mentioned thus far, are cycles, or aspects that we have seen as well. 


 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Peaks and valleys of productivity.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Tech is essential. Internet connection bandwidth and local routing is critical. Multiple devices is best. Mobile devices have excellent noise cancellation when using speakerphone but headphones should be standard issue for everyone.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Scheduling balance of meetings and actual work. We have one day for update meetings and one day for subject specific team meetings. The rest of the week is fo everyone to get some work done.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Home environment for work is not possible for everyone. Almost backwards of what used to be need of “who should have an office”

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Beyond methodology, I believe that this method shows who is capable of self motivating, who can have the discipline and which were elevated by proximity to other team members. The shift towards a results based dynamic as opposed to an industrial era time sheet, on location presence at the workplace is going to be hard with a workforce that was prepared for something that is no longer the best method. Change is hard but we are also judging it on an unfair timeline. Everyone will get past these initial pains.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * We have done virtual office sessions (connection is maintained while each of them work) or just laid back sessions in which we talk more about the industry or content that we are excited about.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Presentation of the work environment that is seen on camera, the lighting, cameras, all affect how our team’s confidence and in turn how we are perceived

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     	* We have tested more creative solutions as well.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Towards 3rd parties we have considered gifts or any manner that could connect people at a distance… send tea, snacks, coffee. Having it arrive to the 3rd party contact on the day of the meeting.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * Find ritual for each day to alleviate the blurring of all the days. Weekends very different but even between weekdays it can help.

 </span> <span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 14.0;text-align: left;">
     * CLOUD CLOUD CLOUD / IT IT IT / Project Management Tools / Embrace Microsoft TEAMS, Highly recommend an equivalent to MONDAY that has been so effective for the Oi team.

 </span>